>> Brian Holt: So, yeah, thank you.
Thank you for all sticking with it,
this is a lot of material to take in.
I think it's a pretty usable and fun
to use library for building interfaces.
I still use it to this day,
just for my side projects.
I do dabble around with solid and
HTML and all those kinda things as well,
but it's old reliable for
me to come back to React.
Something I'm gonna have to maintain for
a while and
have a team work on all that kinda stuff.
I still think React is the best
library for it, fight me.
So, yeah, I'm gonna assert that what I
taught you today is 95% of what you need
to know about writing
React professionally.
The last 5% is a pretty long tail and
gets into some really strange performance
details, like use transition, and
some of these things I didn't
really end up talking about.
If you're doing advanced animations,
or animating between pages, or
something like that, you'll need a bit
more than I talked about today or
if you're building like libraries.
But for just building interfaces,
like everything that I did at Netflix,
I think that's fair to say,
everything that I did at Netflix is
encapsulated what I taught today.
So that should tell you something.
>> Brian Holt: And I'll say, yeah,
the last 5% I'll be teaching you
an intermediate React v6
which is scheduled later.
>> Brian Holt: So you might be
asking what do I do from here?
Well, our intermediate React,
v5 has a lot of good stuff in it, and
another dashing gentleman in
a very nice looking sweater there.
I go through all the hooks that
exist React 18 in depth, so reducer,
memo, callback,
I didn't talk about any of these today.
We do tailwind if you wanna talk
about that, more performance.
Code splitting,
we kinda talked about today.
You could probably actually
end up skipping some of this,
cuz this will be covered better with v6.
I did talk about deferred value and
useTransition.
We convert the entire project to
TypeScript, that might be helpful.
Redux and testing this, I moved that into
intro cuz that seems more appropriate.
So that's out there for
you if you wanna do that.
There's a front-end
master's learning path,
there's other stuff on here
React performance, TypeScript,
Next.js lots of good goodies in there.
Next.js, Remix/React-Router,
that's all goodness.
And then again Tailwind,
there's a great Steve King Course on
doing Tailwind as well,
which is people seem to love with React.
Let's just talk a moment about
other stuff you could do.
You could build your own app,
I always encourage people to build apps,
cuz that's usually the way
that I learn the best.
For work I had to build an example
app inside, I haven't HTMX very much,
and so I spent a bunch of time learning
HTMX building a sample app, right?
So I think that's the best
way to internalize this.
I just picked the dumbest idea in my head,
I'm gonna go build that.
One of the ones I just built recently
was associating my Strava and
associating my Spotify, and then it would
read what music I listened to on my runs,
and then it would use open AI to
generate stupid titles for my runs.
That was it, it's an objectively
terrible idea, but I did it, and
I learned a bunch of stuff about
the technology I was working with, right?
So do stuff like that,
I encourage you to build the Thomas tabs.
The Sarah Vieira is an awesome
developer relations person on Twitter.
She wants to bring back stupid, and
I wholeheartedly endorse that motion.
One more thing is, people like to deploy
their apps, which I think is a kinda
cool thing to do with this afterwards,
you can put it as part of your portfolio.
Or, I don't know, just learn a bunch
of stuff about infrastructure,
which I'm also very much into, obviously.
So I wanted to talk a second, I was like,
how would you go about deploying this app?
The first thing, so let's stop our
server here, we'd made an npm run build.
We already did that at
the beginning of the course.
This will build everything into a very
nice ready to go package here called dist.
So you have index.html and
all of your static assets.
So that's cool,
that's all ready to be deployed to a CDN.
You would also have to deploy your API, so
let's talk just a second about
what you would do there.
>> Brian Holt: So this is the API.
>> Brian Holt: The first thing is,
this is all running on SQLite,
which there's another good
course on Frontend Master,
if you wanna learn about
SQLite that I taught.
>> Brian Holt: So you either need to move
this database off of this server, or
you just have to accept that it's going
to not preserve your data long term.
One of those two things, if you don't
care about saving your database,
by all means leave it just the way it is.
If you care about saving your database,
there's a cool database company
called Neon, I don't know if you've
heard of it, it's pretty cool.
You could definitely load this SQLite
database directly into Neon and
then put the NEON
connection string in here.
I am 95% sure that this is just
all very dumb SQL that would
all work directly with Postgres.
So you would just have to change from this
SQLite driver to something like the Neon
serverless driver or something like that.
It would be pretty fast to convert
this from SQLite to Postgres, or
you could use something like Turso,
right, which does SQLite in the cloud.
All of those are valid options.
And then you'd have to deploy
this to something like Vercel or
Elastic Beanstalk or something like that.
>> Brian Holt: So if you're able to do
that, deploy all your static assets,
deploy your app, change your database.
If you care about changing your database,
then everything should just work.
Last thing, you might need to move,
you might need to move the style.css and
some of the images over to this project,
cuz that's kinda where they belong.
I was kinda cheating by making
it available on the API so
that you never had to worry about where
the images of the styles were coming from.
But that might be the case as well,
any questions?
All right, nailed it,
no questions, perfect dismount.
[LAUGH] [APPLAUSE]